## Godot - A very quick view of GDScript

All computer languages (so far) are formal not natural.
They are not ambiguous, have little to no redundency, and are literal.

<u>GDScript is similar to python</u>. It is not python but is almost identical at our level. I have left a link for the book *Think Python* at the bottom of this session. It is comprehensive and you only need to look at the first few chapters to have a strong grasp of python (chapters 1-5). It is used as a 101 course in universities.

<u>GDScript is written specifically for the Godot Game Engine</u>. the more detailed basics can be found at https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_basics.html

If we create a script inside Godot we get a template which is designed for that Node. The first line will be *extends* - which tells the script what it can use. Then there will likely be a few functions which can be called by the game via that node or other code it extends. Mostly these modify what already exists - confusing? OK. lets take a few steps back.

#### GDScript (Gee Dee Script) or Godot script, is 

+ a dynamic language
+ uses indentation (spaces or tabs from the beginning of the line) to group code
+ **#** starts a line comment. A comment is not code.


#### The operators (basic)
 
`+ addition`
 
`- subtraction`

`* multiplication`

`/ division`

#### Logical Operators

these are used for comparison

`>` greater than 
`<` less than
`==` equal too. note not `=` which is an assignment.

They can be combined. `>=` greater and equal too.


#### Values

These values belong to different types: 
+ 2 is an integer, 
+ 42.0 is a floating-point number, 
+ 'Hello, World!' is a string.
+ true or false is a bool (boolean)
+ empty data type is null

A string is letters that are 'strung' together.

#### Statements and control flow

i.e. if/else/elif

these allow us to check a condition
e.g.

    if 1 + 1 == 2: 
        return 2 + 2
    else:
        var x = 3 + 3
        return x

#### loops
Allow us to repeat code
i.e. while/for

    for i in range(3):        # Similar to [0, 1, 2]
        statement 

#### functions

When we group code and give it a name it can be called from other places in the code. It helps prevent the same code from being written all over the place. Indentation decides when we reach the end of the function.

e.g.

    func _ready():
	    pass
    
    func _physics_process(_delta):
	    position = player.position

    func my_function(a):
        print(a)

The first two are fairly common for GDScript and are seen in Section 1 session 4. The third function is called *my_function* and its *parameter a* accepts an *argument* that will be printed on the console (panel 4) when the app is run.

The way to *call* our function would be to have 

+ *my_function(value)* 

in the code somewhere else. The value is whatever we want to pass to the function. i.e. it could be 10.

When dealing with things that may or may not exist but you need them for the code to work (i.e. files), use the keyword *assert* to throw an exception if they are not there or contain an error. Look to the doc's for this.

I have been against exceptions in production code for a long time, but have changed my mind. They can be used to assist self recovering code and warn the user that defaults are being used. Don't hide the error if it may not be what the user is expecting.

I'm going to stop there and suggest you read the *Links*. Mostly read GDScript or python like you were reading english. I will try make it easy in the book, but you will need to look at references.

I only need you to understand what we are trying to achive with the most basic understanding, so you'll be ready for slightly deeper (more detailed) later.

**In the Editor, if you hover over with the mouse while holding the *Ctrl* key, some words will highlight. The Godot editor will take you to the help file of a code-word if you click on the word while holding *Ctrl*.**


### Links

+ BOOK: Think Python - http://www.thinkpython2.com/
+ GDScript https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/tutorials/scripting/gdscript/gdscript_basics.html



