## Unity and C#

Unity uses C#. It a language that follows the C and C++ convention and has taken on its own nature over the years. .NET standard and .net Core and now .net 5 and above have all replaced .net framework 4.x and lower. I will stick to basics and you will not need to know these differences. Unity will most likely choose the most open version and go with that and that may change by the time you read this.

I will introduce code in the lessons and will explain them. If you are reading the tutorials, this page will be updated form time to time with more info.

So the basics ...

+ C# pronounced as "See-Sharp"
+ It is an OOP (Object-Oriented programming language).
+ it was started by Microsoft in the early 2000's because they felt limited by Sun/Oracle control over Java. Well at least thats the story I know.

Best to try read C# code as if it were english but thats not always possible. It has a few symbols which need looking up.

It has a lot in common with C and Java and C++. So...

Comments - non-code - for the human reader.
+ // is a line comment
+ /* */ is a block comment and will surround several lines of text.

#### The operators (basic)
 
`+ addition`
 
`- subtraction`

`* multiplication`

`/ division`

#### Logical Operators

these are used for comparison

`>` greater than 
`<` less than
`==` equal too. note not `=` which is an assignment.

They can be combined. `>=` greater and equal too.


#### Values

These values belong to different types: 
+ 2 is an integer, 
+ 42.0 is a floating-point number, 
+ 'Hello, World!' is a string.
+ true or false is a bool (boolean)
+ empty data type is null

A string is letters that are 'strung' together.

You can use these values directly in the code and they are known as literals.

#### Variables
Variables and Constants are places to hold values. Variables as thier name suggest are usually intended to have thier values changed.

    int counter = 0;

Here we declare an interger variable and give it the name *counter*. We can then use *counter* to reference that variable later. Here counter is set to 1 or said another way  "1 is assigned to *counter*"



#### Statements and control flow

i.e. if / else / else if

these allow us to check a condition

*if true then do this*
e.g.

    if (1 + 1 == 2) 
    {
        return 2 + 2;
    }
    else
    {
        //yes we can use vars now too, but once assigned they can only be used by
        //that type.
        var x = 3 + 3; 
        return x;
    }

The braces { and } contain blocks of code within them. You don't need them for single line but it helps to avoid mistakes by always using them.

dome people prefer using braces like this

    if (1 + 1 == 2) {
        return 2 + 2;
    } else {
        var x = 3 + 3;
        return x;
    }
personally I find that harder to read and more of a Java style, but hey those are not rules, just a standard.

#### loops
Allow us to repeat code
i.e. while/for/for in/do..while/etc.

### Functions and methods. 

When you look at code these appear the same. The difference is that a method is intended to be contained in an object and called in that way. i.e. they are actionable *methods of the object*. While a function is not called via an object.

We'll get more detail later, as we progress through the lessons. 

If you like you should take a look at
http://www.csharpcourse.com/ for the C# yellow book (Rob Miles, 2019).



References

(Rob Miles, 2019).
“Cheese” Edition 8.1 December 2019. http://www.csharpcourse.com/


